In this video, we will see Array as Parameter.
So already I have an example, and here I will show you how arrays are passed as parameter,
more about arrays we will see.
See here, the main function is having an array of size 5.
And also it is initialized.
So this is the part of main function, array and its name is A.
Now here I'm calling a function fun ( ) by passing array and a number of elements that is of size 5. And, this function,
fun ( ) ,
It is taking parameter array, i.e, A, and for passing array as parameter, we have to mention empty brackets, right.
We should not give any size. And this function doesn't know the size of an array because they actually
belong to main function, so we should also pass what is the size of the array, means how many elements do
we access.
So, this A is actually like a pointer to an array. It's not an array itself, it's a pointer to an array,
and this is number of elements.
Now in this code I'm just printing all the elements of an array. This for loop is printing all the elements
of an array.
Now the important thing, let us see what is the parameter passing method used here.
See array is passed by address.
Arrays cannot be passed by value at all,
whether it is C language or C++.
Arrays can be passed only by address. So, it means the address of this array, the base address of this array
is given to this pointer.
This is just a pointer. I'm giving the bracket means, it is a pointer to an array. And what about the next thing?
that is 5 is passed here.
So this is which type of parameter? If you see this, there is no *. So it's not Call by Address.
There is no &,
This is not Call by Reference.
Yes it is Call by Value.
Just a normal variable.
So this is Call by Value.
So there are two parameters.
One is passed by address,
Other one is passed by value.
So this is its own local variable n.
So the value 5 is copied in this n and the address of A is copied in this one.
So that function is directly accessing this array, right.
So arrays are only passed by addresses.
Next thing, instead of writing brackets,
Even I can write,
* here.
So this is will be an integer pointer.
And that pointer will be pointing to an array. See, the difference is,
This pointer can point on any integer and even it can point on an array.
But if we were using brackets like this then, it means it's a       pointer to array only.
So when you want to be specific with arrays then better use this one, and writing * is general method.
This is array as parameter.
Now one more thing, inside this function, if I want I can make changes to the array and it will make changes
to the actual parameter, that is the array of main function.
So I'll remove this and show you, if I make changes how it will reflect on this array.
Here, array as a parameter,
If I say, A[0] = 25, then at this place, it will be changed to 25.
See the array belongs to the main function only.
And this function is able to modify the contents of the array because it is called by address.
So you can modify the array also, and you can modify all the elements.
Even I can write a for loop and change all the elements.
So this is sufficient to show you that even a function can modify the actual parameter.
Now one more thing I will show you.
Returning array as a parameter.
So I will remove this and change the function.
Then I will discuss about it. So here I have an example, showing how a function can return an array.
So let us look at this code. Here, I have main function,
I have a pointer inside main function and I am calling a function by passing value 5.
Then the rest of the things whatever maybe there inside the main function.
Now this is a function which is taking parameter n and this is passed by value.
Right.
There is no &, there is no *,
So this is pass by value, call by value, and it is having a pointer and it is allocating an array of
size
this much of type Integer and it is returning p.
It is returning p,
that is pointer, returning a pointer.
So what is the return type? int [ ] .
So, [ ] resembles an array.
So it means it is returning an array.
Yes it is a returning, function is returning an array.
And if you see the working,
Let us look at the working now.
Let us start from main function.
Main function is having a pointer, then it is calling function fun by passing 5.
Function fun ( ) is called.
It is taking a parameter n, so it is
also having n, it will have the value 5, then malloc ( ), it will allocate the memory in heap.
So, inside the heap an array of size 5 will be created.
Then the address of that will be present in p, because that is stored in p and that p belongs to the
function fun ( ), that array in heap is indirectly accessible by this pointer p. Now, after allocating, it
returns p.
So it is returning that pointer, so where it is being taken inside the main function, in a, so what it is having?
It is having the address on that one.
So it means a will get the address of this one.
So a will be pointing that array.
So it returning by array.
So this type of logic is useful sometimes like a function is allocating a memory in heap and manipulating,
storing some data and then it is returning the array to the calling function.
So it is returning,
and this function is getting that array, created by that function, right? Now, once the function ends,
its activation record is deleted.
So this is p gone, but a is still there and a is accessing that array.
So this is removed. Now, a is pointing on that one.
So this is returned by array.
Now one more thing,
instead of writing [ ] , even I can write * here, because it is returning a pointer. So, pointer
can point on one element, or array of elements.
But when you have given a [ ] , it means it should point on array of elements only. That is especially
for array.
But you can use any of these, whichever you are comfortable with. And if [ ] is used, the code
itself is readable.
And from the code we can read that, it is related to an array, right?
So any one thing you can use. So that's all, this is how a function can return an array.
So we have learned, How functions can handle array taking as parameter and returning as an address
an array.
So we will be using this type of code sometime in our course.
So that's all in this video. In the coming videos, I will show you how to handle structures and functions.